README.md, before:

# <a name="title"></a> chef-logstash [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/lusis/chef-logstash.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/lusis/chef-logstash)

Description
===========

This is the semi-official 'all-in-one' Logstash cookbook.

Requirements
============

All of the requirements are explicitly defined in the recipes. Every
effort has been made to utilize Opscode's cookbooks.

However if you wish to use an external ElasticSearch cluster, you will
need to install that yourself and change the relevant attributes for
discovery. The same applies to integration with Graphite.

This cookbook has been tested together with the following cookbooks,
see the Berksfile for more details

* [Heavywater Graphite Cookbook](https://github.com/heavywater/chef-graphite)   - This is the one I use
* [Karmi's ElasticSearch Cookbook](https://github.com/karmi/cookbook-elasticsearch)
* [RiotGames RBENV cookbook](https://github.com/RiotGames/rbenv-cookbook)



Attributes
==========

## Default

* `node['logstash']['basedir']` - the base directory for all the
  Logstash components
* `node['logstash']['user']` - the owner for all Logstash components
* `node['logstash']['group']` - the group for all Logstash components
* `node['logstash']['graphite_role']` - the Chef role to search for
  discovering your preexisting Graphite server
* `node['logstash']['graphite_query']` - the search query used for
  discovering your preexisting Graphite server. Defaults to 
  node['logstash']['graphite_role'] in the current node environment
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_role']` - the Chef role to search
  for discovering your preexisting ElasticSearch cluster.
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_query']` - the search query used for
  discovering your preexisting ElasticSearch cluster. Defaults to 
  node['logstash']['elasticsearch_role'] in the current node environment
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_cluster']` - the cluster name
  assigned to your preexisting ElasticSearch cluster. Only applies to
  external ES clusters.
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_ip']` - the IP address that will be
  used for your elasticsearch server in case you are using Chef-solo
* `node['logstash']['graphite_ip']` - the IP address that will be used
  for your graphite server in case you are using Chef-solo
* `node['logstash']['join_groups']` - An array of Operative System
  groups to join. Usefull to gain read privileges on some logfiles.
* `node['logstash']['patterns']` - A hash with grok patterns to be
  used on grok and multiline filters.
* `node['logstash']['create_account']` - create the account info from
  `user` and `group`; this is `true` by default. Disable it to use an
  existing account!
* `node['logstash']['install_zeromq']` - Should this
  recipe install zeromq packages?
* `node['logstash']['zeromq_packages']` - zeromq_packages to install
  if you use zeromq

## Running with chef solo
You can use this cookbook with chef-solo, by defining
* `node['logstash']['agent']['server_ipaddress']`
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['server_ipaddress']`
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_ip']`

It is also possible to use the chef_solo_search plugin. In order to
do that, you have to set the following attribute:
`node['logstash']['chef_solo_with_search'] = true`

## Agent

* `node['logstash']['agent']['install_method']` - The method to
  install logstash - either `jar` or `source`, defaults to `jar`
* `node['logstash']['agent']['version']` - The version of Logstash to
  install. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['source_url']` - The URL of the Logstash
  jar to download. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['checksum']` - The checksum of the jar
  file. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['base_config']` - The name of the
  template to use for `logstash.conf` as a base config.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['base_config_cookbook']` - Where to find
  the base\_config template.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['xms']` - The minimum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['xmx']` - The maximum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['java_opts']` - Additional params you
  want to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['agent']['gc_opts']` - Specify your garbage
  collection options to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['agent']['ipv4_only']` - Add jvm option
  preferIPv4Stack?
* `node['logstash']['agent']['debug']` - Run logstash with `-v`
  option?
* `node['logstash']['agent']['server_role']` - The role of the node
  behaving as a Logstash `server`/`indexer`
* `node['logstash']['agent']['inputs']` - Array of input plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['filters']` - Array of filter plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['outputs']` - Array of output plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['patterns_dir']` - The patterns directory
  where pattern files will be generated. Relative to the basedir or
  absolute.

## Server

* `node['logstash']['server']['install_method']` - The method to
  install logstash - either `jar` or `source`
* `node['logstash']['server']['version']` - The version of Logstash to
  install. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['server']['source_url']` - The URL of the Logstash
  jar to download. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['server']['checksum']` - The checksum of the jar
  file. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['server']['base_config']` - The name of the
  template to use for `logstash.conf` as a base config.
* `node['logstash']['server']['base_config_cookbook']` - Where to find
  the base\_config template.
* `node['logstash']['server']['xms']` - The minimum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['server']['xmx']` - The maximum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['server']['java_opts']` - Additional params you
  want to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['server']['gc_opts']` - Specify your garbage
  collection options to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['server']['ipv4_only']` - Add jvm option
  preferIPv4Stack?
* `node['logstash']['server']['debug']` - Run logstash with `-v`
  option?
* `node['logstash']['server']['enable_embedded_es']` - Should Logstash
  run with the embedded ElasticSearch server or not?
* `node['logstash']['server']['install_rabbitmq']` - Should this
  recipe install rabbitmq?
* `node['logstash']['server']['inputs']` - Array of input plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['server']['filters']` - Array of filter plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['server']['outputs']` - Array of output plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['server']['patterns_dir']` - The patterns
  directory where pattern files will be generated. Relative to the
  basedir or absolute.

## Kibana

* `node['logstash']['kibana']['repo']` - The git repo to install
  Kibana from.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['sha']` - The sha/branch/tag of the repo
  you wish to clone.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['apache_template']` - The name of the
  template file to use for the Apache site file
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['config']` - The name of the template to
  use for the Kibana `config.php` file
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['server_name']` - The value to use for
  the Apache `ServerName` variable to use for the Kibana Apache
  virtual host.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['http_port']` - The port the virtualhost
  kibana listens on
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['server_auth_method']` - Authentication
   with the server can be done with openid (using `apache2::mod_auth_openid`),
   cas (using `apache2::mod_auth_cas`), or htauth (basic). The default is
   no auth.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_login_url']` - Login url for cas 
   if using cas authentication.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_validate_url']` - Validation url for
   cas if using cas authentication.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_validate_server']` - Whether to
   validate the server cert. Defaults to off.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_root_proxy_url']` - If set, sets the
   url that the cas server redirects to after auth.

## Beaver (alternative to Logstash Agent)

* `node['logstash']['beaver']['repo']` - URL or repository to install
  beaver from (using pip).
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['server_role']` - The role of the node
  behaving as a Logstash `server`/`indexer`.
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['server_ipaddress']` - Server IP address
  to use (needed when not using server_role).
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['inputs']` - Array of input plugins
  configuration (Supported: file).
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['outputs']` - Array of output plugins
  configuration (Supported: amq, redis, stdout, zeromq).

## Source

* `node['logstash']['source']['repo']` - The git repo to use for the
  source code of Logstash
* `node['logstash']['source']['sha']` - The sha/branch/tag of the repo
  you wish to clone. Uses `node['logstash']['server']['version']` by
  default.
* `node['logstash']['source']['java_home']` - your `JAVA_HOME`
  location. Needed explicity for `ant` when building JRuby

## Index Cleaner

* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['days_to_keep']` - Integer number
  of days from today of Logstash index to keep.
* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['cron']['minute'] - Minute to run
  the index_cleaner cron job
* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['cron']['hour'] - Hour to run the
  index_cleaner cron job
* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['cron']['log_file'] - Path to direct
  the index_cleaner cron job's stdout and stderr

Usage
=====

A proper readme is forthcoming but in the interim....

There are 3 recipes you need to concern yourself with:

* server - This would be your indexer node
* agent - This would be a local host's agent for collection
* kibana - This is the web interface

Every attempt (and I mean this) was made to ensure that the following
objectives were met:

* Any agent install can talk to a server install
* Kibana web interface can talk to the server install
* Each component works OOB and with each other
* Utilize official opscode cookbooks where possible

This setup makes HEAVY use of roles. Additionally, ALL paths have been
made into attributes. Everything I could think of that would need to
be customized has been made an attribute.

## Defaults

By default, the recipes look for the following roles (defined as
attributes so they can be overridden):

* `graphite_server` - `node['logstash']['graphite_role']`
* `elasticsearch_server` - `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_role']`
* `logstash_server` -
  `node['logstash']['kibana']['elasticsearch_role']` and
  `node['logstash']['agent']['server_role']`

The reason for giving `kibana` its own role assignment is to allow you
to point to existing ES clusters/logstash installs.

The reason for giving `agent` its own role assignment is to allow the
`server` and `agent` recipes to work together.

Yes, if you have a graphite installation with a role of
`graphite_server`, logstash will send stats of events received to
`logstash.events`.

## Agent and Server configuration

The template to use for configuration is made an attribute as well.
This allows you to define your OWN logstash configuration file without
mucking with the default templates.

The `server` will, by default, enable the embedded ES server. This can
be overriden as well.

See the `server` and `agent` attributes for more details.

## Source vs. Jar install methods

Both `agent` and `server` support an attribute for how to install. By
default this is set to `jar` to use the 1.1.1preview as it is required
to use elasticsearch 0.19.4. The current release is defined in
attributes if you choose to go the `source` route.

## Out of the box behaviour

Here are some basic steps

* Create a role called `logstash_server` and assign it the following
  recipes: `logstash::server` and `logstash::kibana`
* Assign the role to a new server
* Assign the `logstash::agent` recipe to another server

If there is a system found with the `logstash_server` role, the agent
will automatically configure itself to send logs to it over tcp port
5959. This is, not coincidently, the port used by the chef logstash
handler.

If there is NOT a system with the `logstash_server` role, the agent
will use a null output. The default input is to read files from
`/var/log/*.log` excluding and gzipped files.

If you point your browser to the `logstash_server` system's ip
address, you should get the kibana web interface.

Do something to generate a new line in any of the files in the agent's
watch path (I like to SSH to the host), and the events will start
showing up in kibana. You might have to issue a fresh empty search.

The `pyshipper` recipe will work as well but it is NOT wired up to
anything yet.

## Letting data drive your templates

The current templates for the agent and server are written so that you
can provide ruby hashes in your roles that map to inputs, filters, and
outputs. Here is a role for logstash_server

    name "logstash_server"
    description "Attributes and run_lists specific to FAO's logstash instance"
    default_attributes(
      :logstash => {
        :server => {
          :enable_embedded_es => false,
          :inputs => [
            :amqp => {
              :type => "all",
              :host => "127.0.0.1",
              :exchange => "rawlogs",
              :name => "rawlogs_consumer"
            }
          ],
          :filters => [
            :grok => {
              :type => "haproxy",
              :pattern => "%{HAPROXYHTTP}",
              :patterns_dir => '/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/'
            }
          ],
          :outputs => [
            :file => {
              :type => 'haproxy',
              :path => '/opt/logstash/server/haproxy_logs/%{request_header_host}.log',
              :message_format => '%{client_ip} - - [%{accept_date}] "%{http_request}" %{http_status_code} ....'
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    )
    run_list(
      "role[elasticsearch_server]",
      "recipe[logstash::server]",
      "recipe[php::module_curl]",
      "recipe[logstash::kibana]"
    )


It will produce the following logstash.conf file

    input {

      amqp {
        exchange => 'rawlogs'
        host => '127.0.0.1'
        name => 'rawlogs_consumer'
        type => 'all'
      }
    }

    filter {

      grok {
        pattern => '%{HAPROXYHTTP}'
        patterns_dir => '/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/'
        type => 'haproxy'
      }
    }

    output {
      stdout { debug => true debug_format => "json" }
      elasticsearch { host => "127.0.0.1" cluster => "logstash" }

      file {
        message_format => '%{client_ip} - - [%{accept_date}] "%{http_request}" %{http_status_code} ....'
        path => '/opt/logstash/server/haproxy_logs/%{request_header_host}.log'
        type => 'haproxy'
      }
    }

Here is an example using multiple filters

    default_attributes(
      :logstash => {
        :server => {
          :filters => [
            { :grep => {
                :type => 'tomcat',
                :match => { '@message' => '([Ee]xception|Failure:|Error:)' },
                :add_tag => 'exception',
                :drop => false
            } },
            { :grep => {
                :type => 'tomcat',
                :match => { '@message' => 'Unloading class ' },
                :add_tag => 'unloading-class',
                :drop => false
            } },
            { :multiline => {
                :type => 'tomcat',
                :pattern => '^\s',
                :what => 'previous'
            } }
          ]
        }
      }
    )

It will produce the following logstash.conf file

    filter {

      grep {
        add_tag => 'exception'
        drop => false
        match => ['@message', '([Ee]xception|Failure:|Error:)']
        type => 'tomcat'
      }

      grep {
        add_tag => 'unloading-class'
        drop => false
        match => ["@message", "Unloading class "]
        type => 'tomcat'
      }

      multiline {
        patterns_dir => '/opt/logstash/patterns'
        pattern => '^\s'
        type => 'tomcat'
        what => 'previous'
      }

    }

## Adding grok patterns

Grok pattern files can be generated using attributes as follows

    default_attributes(
      :logstash => {
        :patterns => {
          :apache => {
            :HTTP_ERROR_DATE => '%{DAY} %{MONTH} %{MONTHDAY} %{TIME} %{YEAR}',
            :APACHE_LOG_LEVEL => '[A-Za-z][A-Za-z]+',
            :ERRORAPACHELOG => '^\[%{HTTP_ERROR_DATE:timestamp}\] \[%{APACHE_LOG_LEVEL:level}\](?: \[client %{IPORHOST:clientip}\])?',
          },
          :mywebapp => {
            :MYWEBAPP_LOG => '\[mywebapp\]',
          },
        },
        [...]
      }
    )

This will generate the following files:

`/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/apache`

    APACHE_LOG_LEVEL [A-Za-z][A-Za-z]+
    ERRORAPACHELOG ^\[%{HTTP_ERROR_DATE:timestamp}\] \[%{APACHE_LOG_LEVEL:level}\](?: \[client %{IPORHOST:clientip}\])?
    HTTP_ERROR_DATE %{DAY} %{MONTH} %{MONTHDAY} %{TIME} %{YEAR}

`/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/mywebapp`

    MYWEBAPP_LOG \[mywebapp\]

This patterns will be included by default in the grok and multiline
filters.

# BIG WARNING

* Currently only tested on Ubuntu Natty, Precise, and RHEL 6.2.

## License and Author

- Author:    John E. Vincent
- Author:    Bryan W. Berry (<bryan.berry@gmail.com>)
- Author:    Richard Clamp (@richardc)
- Author:    Juanje Ojeda (@juanje)
- Author:    @benattar
- Copyright: 2012, John E. Vincent
- Copyright: 2012, Bryan W. Berry
- Copyright: 2012, Richard Clamp
- Copyright: 2012, Juanje Ojeda
- Copyright: 2012, @benattar

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Parameterize 'path' to ip addresses.
This allows you to use something like ['cloud']['private_ipv4'], to let traffic go over your private (rackspace) network

README.md, after:

# <a name="title"></a> chef-logstash [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/lusis/chef-logstash.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/lusis/chef-logstash)

Description
===========

This is the semi-official 'all-in-one' Logstash cookbook.

Requirements
============

All of the requirements are explicitly defined in the recipes. Every
effort has been made to utilize Opscode's cookbooks.

However if you wish to use an external ElasticSearch cluster, you will
need to install that yourself and change the relevant attributes for
discovery. The same applies to integration with Graphite.

This cookbook has been tested together with the following cookbooks,
see the Berksfile for more details

* [Heavywater Graphite Cookbook](https://github.com/heavywater/chef-graphite)   - This is the one I use
* [Karmi's ElasticSearch Cookbook](https://github.com/karmi/cookbook-elasticsearch)
* [RiotGames RBENV cookbook](https://github.com/RiotGames/rbenv-cookbook)



Attributes
==========

## Default

* `node['logstash']['basedir']` - the base directory for all the
  Logstash components
* `node['logstash']['user']` - the owner for all Logstash components
* `node['logstash']['group']` - the group for all Logstash components
* `node['logstash']['graphite_role']` - the Chef role to search for
  discovering your preexisting Graphite server
* `node['logstash']['graphite_query']` - the search query used for
  discovering your preexisting Graphite server. Defaults to 
  node['logstash']['graphite_role'] in the current node environment
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_role']` - the Chef role to search
  for discovering your preexisting ElasticSearch cluster.
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_query']` - the search query used for
  discovering your preexisting ElasticSearch cluster. Defaults to 
  node['logstash']['elasticsearch_role'] in the current node environment
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_cluster']` - the cluster name
  assigned to your preexisting ElasticSearch cluster. Only applies to
  external ES clusters.
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_ip']` - the IP address that will be
  used for your elasticsearch server in case you are using Chef-solo
* `node['logstash']['graphite_ip']` - the IP address that will be used
  for your graphite server in case you are using Chef-solo
* `node['logstash']['join_groups']` - An array of Operative System
  groups to join. Usefull to gain read privileges on some logfiles.
* `node['logstash']['patterns']` - A hash with grok patterns to be
  used on grok and multiline filters.
* `node['logstash']['create_account']` - create the account info from
  `user` and `group`; this is `true` by default. Disable it to use an
  existing account!
* `node['logstash']['install_zeromq']` - Should this
  recipe install zeromq packages?
* `node['logstash']['zeromq_packages']` - zeromq_packages to install
  if you use zeromq

## Running with chef solo
You can use this cookbook with chef-solo, by defining
* `node['logstash']['agent']['server_ipaddress']`
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['server_ipaddress']`
* `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_ip']`

It is also possible to use the chef_solo_search plugin. In order to
do that, you have to set the following attribute:
`node['logstash']['chef_solo_with_search'] = true`

## Using a custom ip lookup on nodes
After a node has been found, we can configure which attribute is
used to retrieve the IP address we want to use.
By default, this is `node['ipaddress']`.
When running on e.g. Rackspace, you generally want to let all
traffic between your own VM's run over the private rackspace network.
On rackspace, the private ipv4 address is stored in 
`node['cloud']['private_ipv4']`.

You can specify to use this address by setting the following attribute:
`node['logstash']['ipaddress_path'] = ['cloud', 'private_ipv4']`


## Agent

* `node['logstash']['agent']['install_method']` - The method to
  install logstash - either `jar` or `source`, defaults to `jar`
* `node['logstash']['agent']['version']` - The version of Logstash to
  install. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['source_url']` - The URL of the Logstash
  jar to download. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['checksum']` - The checksum of the jar
  file. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['base_config']` - The name of the
  template to use for `logstash.conf` as a base config.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['base_config_cookbook']` - Where to find
  the base\_config template.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['xms']` - The minimum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['xmx']` - The maximum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['java_opts']` - Additional params you
  want to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['agent']['gc_opts']` - Specify your garbage
  collection options to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['agent']['ipv4_only']` - Add jvm option
  preferIPv4Stack?
* `node['logstash']['agent']['debug']` - Run logstash with `-v`
  option?
* `node['logstash']['agent']['server_role']` - The role of the node
  behaving as a Logstash `server`/`indexer`
* `node['logstash']['agent']['inputs']` - Array of input plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['filters']` - Array of filter plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['outputs']` - Array of output plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['agent']['patterns_dir']` - The patterns directory
  where pattern files will be generated. Relative to the basedir or
  absolute.

## Server

* `node['logstash']['server']['install_method']` - The method to
  install logstash - either `jar` or `source`
* `node['logstash']['server']['version']` - The version of Logstash to
  install. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['server']['source_url']` - The URL of the Logstash
  jar to download. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['server']['checksum']` - The checksum of the jar
  file. Only applies to `jar` install method.
* `node['logstash']['server']['base_config']` - The name of the
  template to use for `logstash.conf` as a base config.
* `node['logstash']['server']['base_config_cookbook']` - Where to find
  the base\_config template.
* `node['logstash']['server']['xms']` - The minimum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['server']['xmx']` - The maximum memory to assign
  the JVM.
* `node['logstash']['server']['java_opts']` - Additional params you
  want to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['server']['gc_opts']` - Specify your garbage
  collection options to pass to the JVM
* `node['logstash']['server']['ipv4_only']` - Add jvm option
  preferIPv4Stack?
* `node['logstash']['server']['debug']` - Run logstash with `-v`
  option?
* `node['logstash']['server']['enable_embedded_es']` - Should Logstash
  run with the embedded ElasticSearch server or not?
* `node['logstash']['server']['install_rabbitmq']` - Should this
  recipe install rabbitmq?
* `node['logstash']['server']['inputs']` - Array of input plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['server']['filters']` - Array of filter plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['server']['outputs']` - Array of output plugins
  configuration.
* `node['logstash']['server']['patterns_dir']` - The patterns
  directory where pattern files will be generated. Relative to the
  basedir or absolute.

## Kibana

* `node['logstash']['kibana']['repo']` - The git repo to install
  Kibana from.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['sha']` - The sha/branch/tag of the repo
  you wish to clone.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['apache_template']` - The name of the
  template file to use for the Apache site file
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['config']` - The name of the template to
  use for the Kibana `config.php` file
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['server_name']` - The value to use for
  the Apache `ServerName` variable to use for the Kibana Apache
  virtual host.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['http_port']` - The port the virtualhost
  kibana listens on
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['server_auth_method']` - Authentication
   with the server can be done with openid (using `apache2::mod_auth_openid`),
   cas (using `apache2::mod_auth_cas`), or htauth (basic). The default is
   no auth.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_login_url']` - Login url for cas 
   if using cas authentication.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_validate_url']` - Validation url for
   cas if using cas authentication.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_validate_server']` - Whether to
   validate the server cert. Defaults to off.
* `node['logstash']['kibana']['auth']['cas_root_proxy_url']` - If set, sets the
   url that the cas server redirects to after auth.

## Beaver (alternative to Logstash Agent)

* `node['logstash']['beaver']['repo']` - URL or repository to install
  beaver from (using pip).
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['server_role']` - The role of the node
  behaving as a Logstash `server`/`indexer`.
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['server_ipaddress']` - Server IP address
  to use (needed when not using server_role).
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['inputs']` - Array of input plugins
  configuration (Supported: file).
* `node['logstash']['beaver']['outputs']` - Array of output plugins
  configuration (Supported: amq, redis, stdout, zeromq).

## Source

* `node['logstash']['source']['repo']` - The git repo to use for the
  source code of Logstash
* `node['logstash']['source']['sha']` - The sha/branch/tag of the repo
  you wish to clone. Uses `node['logstash']['server']['version']` by
  default.
* `node['logstash']['source']['java_home']` - your `JAVA_HOME`
  location. Needed explicity for `ant` when building JRuby

## Index Cleaner

* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['days_to_keep']` - Integer number
  of days from today of Logstash index to keep.
* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['cron']['minute'] - Minute to run
  the index_cleaner cron job
* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['cron']['hour'] - Hour to run the
  index_cleaner cron job
* `node['logstash']['index_cleaner']['cron']['log_file'] - Path to direct
  the index_cleaner cron job's stdout and stderr

Usage
=====

A proper readme is forthcoming but in the interim....

There are 3 recipes you need to concern yourself with:

* server - This would be your indexer node
* agent - This would be a local host's agent for collection
* kibana - This is the web interface

Every attempt (and I mean this) was made to ensure that the following
objectives were met:

* Any agent install can talk to a server install
* Kibana web interface can talk to the server install
* Each component works OOB and with each other
* Utilize official opscode cookbooks where possible

This setup makes HEAVY use of roles. Additionally, ALL paths have been
made into attributes. Everything I could think of that would need to
be customized has been made an attribute.

## Defaults

By default, the recipes look for the following roles (defined as
attributes so they can be overridden):

* `graphite_server` - `node['logstash']['graphite_role']`
* `elasticsearch_server` - `node['logstash']['elasticsearch_role']`
* `logstash_server` -
  `node['logstash']['kibana']['elasticsearch_role']` and
  `node['logstash']['agent']['server_role']`

The reason for giving `kibana` its own role assignment is to allow you
to point to existing ES clusters/logstash installs.

The reason for giving `agent` its own role assignment is to allow the
`server` and `agent` recipes to work together.

Yes, if you have a graphite installation with a role of
`graphite_server`, logstash will send stats of events received to
`logstash.events`.

## Agent and Server configuration

The template to use for configuration is made an attribute as well.
This allows you to define your OWN logstash configuration file without
mucking with the default templates.

The `server` will, by default, enable the embedded ES server. This can
be overriden as well.

See the `server` and `agent` attributes for more details.

## Source vs. Jar install methods

Both `agent` and `server` support an attribute for how to install. By
default this is set to `jar` to use the 1.1.1preview as it is required
to use elasticsearch 0.19.4. The current release is defined in
attributes if you choose to go the `source` route.

## Out of the box behaviour

Here are some basic steps

* Create a role called `logstash_server` and assign it the following
  recipes: `logstash::server` and `logstash::kibana`
* Assign the role to a new server
* Assign the `logstash::agent` recipe to another server

If there is a system found with the `logstash_server` role, the agent
will automatically configure itself to send logs to it over tcp port
5959. This is, not coincidently, the port used by the chef logstash
handler.

If there is NOT a system with the `logstash_server` role, the agent
will use a null output. The default input is to read files from
`/var/log/*.log` excluding and gzipped files.

If you point your browser to the `logstash_server` system's ip
address, you should get the kibana web interface.

Do something to generate a new line in any of the files in the agent's
watch path (I like to SSH to the host), and the events will start
showing up in kibana. You might have to issue a fresh empty search.

The `pyshipper` recipe will work as well but it is NOT wired up to
anything yet.

## Letting data drive your templates

The current templates for the agent and server are written so that you
can provide ruby hashes in your roles that map to inputs, filters, and
outputs. Here is a role for logstash_server

    name "logstash_server"
    description "Attributes and run_lists specific to FAO's logstash instance"
    default_attributes(
      :logstash => {
        :server => {
          :enable_embedded_es => false,
          :inputs => [
            :amqp => {
              :type => "all",
              :host => "127.0.0.1",
              :exchange => "rawlogs",
              :name => "rawlogs_consumer"
            }
          ],
          :filters => [
            :grok => {
              :type => "haproxy",
              :pattern => "%{HAPROXYHTTP}",
              :patterns_dir => '/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/'
            }
          ],
          :outputs => [
            :file => {
              :type => 'haproxy',
              :path => '/opt/logstash/server/haproxy_logs/%{request_header_host}.log',
              :message_format => '%{client_ip} - - [%{accept_date}] "%{http_request}" %{http_status_code} ....'
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    )
    run_list(
      "role[elasticsearch_server]",
      "recipe[logstash::server]",
      "recipe[php::module_curl]",
      "recipe[logstash::kibana]"
    )


It will produce the following logstash.conf file

    input {

      amqp {
        exchange => 'rawlogs'
        host => '127.0.0.1'
        name => 'rawlogs_consumer'
        type => 'all'
      }
    }

    filter {

      grok {
        pattern => '%{HAPROXYHTTP}'
        patterns_dir => '/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/'
        type => 'haproxy'
      }
    }

    output {
      stdout { debug => true debug_format => "json" }
      elasticsearch { host => "127.0.0.1" cluster => "logstash" }

      file {
        message_format => '%{client_ip} - - [%{accept_date}] "%{http_request}" %{http_status_code} ....'
        path => '/opt/logstash/server/haproxy_logs/%{request_header_host}.log'
        type => 'haproxy'
      }
    }

Here is an example using multiple filters

    default_attributes(
      :logstash => {
        :server => {
          :filters => [
            { :grep => {
                :type => 'tomcat',
                :match => { '@message' => '([Ee]xception|Failure:|Error:)' },
                :add_tag => 'exception',
                :drop => false
            } },
            { :grep => {
                :type => 'tomcat',
                :match => { '@message' => 'Unloading class ' },
                :add_tag => 'unloading-class',
                :drop => false
            } },
            { :multiline => {
                :type => 'tomcat',
                :pattern => '^\s',
                :what => 'previous'
            } }
          ]
        }
      }
    )

It will produce the following logstash.conf file

    filter {

      grep {
        add_tag => 'exception'
        drop => false
        match => ['@message', '([Ee]xception|Failure:|Error:)']
        type => 'tomcat'
      }

      grep {
        add_tag => 'unloading-class'
        drop => false
        match => ["@message", "Unloading class "]
        type => 'tomcat'
      }

      multiline {
        patterns_dir => '/opt/logstash/patterns'
        pattern => '^\s'
        type => 'tomcat'
        what => 'previous'
      }

    }

## Adding grok patterns

Grok pattern files can be generated using attributes as follows

    default_attributes(
      :logstash => {
        :patterns => {
          :apache => {
            :HTTP_ERROR_DATE => '%{DAY} %{MONTH} %{MONTHDAY} %{TIME} %{YEAR}',
            :APACHE_LOG_LEVEL => '[A-Za-z][A-Za-z]+',
            :ERRORAPACHELOG => '^\[%{HTTP_ERROR_DATE:timestamp}\] \[%{APACHE_LOG_LEVEL:level}\](?: \[client %{IPORHOST:clientip}\])?',
          },
          :mywebapp => {
            :MYWEBAPP_LOG => '\[mywebapp\]',
          },
        },
        [...]
      }
    )

This will generate the following files:

`/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/apache`

    APACHE_LOG_LEVEL [A-Za-z][A-Za-z]+
    ERRORAPACHELOG ^\[%{HTTP_ERROR_DATE:timestamp}\] \[%{APACHE_LOG_LEVEL:level}\](?: \[client %{IPORHOST:clientip}\])?
    HTTP_ERROR_DATE %{DAY} %{MONTH} %{MONTHDAY} %{TIME} %{YEAR}

`/opt/logstash/server/etc/patterns/mywebapp`

    MYWEBAPP_LOG \[mywebapp\]

This patterns will be included by default in the grok and multiline
filters.

# BIG WARNING

* Currently only tested on Ubuntu Natty, Precise, and RHEL 6.2.

## License and Author

- Author:    John E. Vincent
- Author:    Bryan W. Berry (<bryan.berry@gmail.com>)
- Author:    Richard Clamp (@richardc)
- Author:    Juanje Ojeda (@juanje)
- Author:    @benattar
- Copyright: 2012, John E. Vincent
- Copyright: 2012, Bryan W. Berry
- Copyright: 2012, Richard Clamp
- Copyright: 2012, Juanje Ojeda
- Copyright: 2012, @benattar

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
